# Art-by-You--PHP--
Purpose of the site: The website is being developed for community artists who want to display their work. This is an online non-profit community site promoting local artist work where artists can upload their work and contact information so that users can view their work, and potentially contact artists to purchase their work or hire them to do work.

Description of each template:

1)	index.php: This is the homepage of the website. The webpage has been adapted from the Bootstrap 5 template for modern businesses template’s index.html page. Certain changes have been made to the original template and those include: Changing the page title, changing the top name on the right side of the navigation bar, changing the titles of the navigation bar, changing the content at the top of the page (in Black), changing the button label, changing the wording for the righthand text below the black frame, removing the second row of “Features” and renaming the sections, removing the testimonial section, removing the “From our Blog” section and removing the blue box at the bottom of the page. The image and text on the homepage have been populated by querying the about table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the index.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

2)	about.php: This is the about page of the website where the details of the organization are displayed. The webpage has been adapted from the Bootstrap 5 template for modern businesses template’s about.html page. Certain changes have been made to the original template and those include: Changing the page title, changing the top name on the right side of the navigation bar, changing the titles of the navigation bar, updating the top of the page text, removing the blue button which refers to “Read our Story”, keeping one of the first rows with an image placeholder and replacing the title and removing everything else underneath. The image and text on the about page have been populated by querying the about table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the about.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

3)	artists.php: This is the artists’ page of the website where the details of individual artists are displayed. The webpage has been adapted from the Bootstrap 5 template for modern businesses template’s about.html page. Certain changes have been made to the original template and those include: Changing the page title, changing the top name on the right side of the navigation bar, changing the titles of the navigation bar, only keeping the row of round images from the about page and updating the information under each image and changing the title of the row of images. The artist names are clickable on the page and it redirects to aboutArtist.php page. All the data on artists.php page have been populated by querying the artists table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the artists.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

4)	collections_T.php: This is the collections page of the website where artworks are categorized and displayed according to themes. The webpage has been adapted from the Bootstrap 5 template for modern businesses template’s index.html page. Certain changes have been made to the original template and those include: Changing the page title, changing the top name on the right side of the navigation bar, changing the titles of the navigation bar, removing everything except the Blog Cards from the bottom of Bootstrap’s index.html page, including 6 cards and updating the title at the top of the page, removing the blue descriptor bubbles on the cards, updating each title of the cards and removing the round image, name of the blogger, date and time to read information from the original Bootstrap page’s cards from the index.html page. The cards on the page are clickable and it redirects to themes.php page. All the data on collections_T.php page have been populated by querying the themes table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the collections_T.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

5)	signin.php: This is sign-in page of the website from where the registered artists of the website can sign into their profile/account on the website. The webpage has been adapted from the Bootstrap 5 template for modern businesses template’s contact.html page. Certain changes have been made to the original template and those include: Changing the page title, changing the top name on the right side of the navigation bar, changing the titles of the navigation bar, changing the main title to “Sign in” and keeping the top two form inputs and change their names to “Username” and “Password” respectively, removing the envelop icon and the line underneath the icon and removing all the sections below the form. This page shows error messages if the password or username does not match with the information in the database or if the user does not input anything in the fields. Once the username and password match with the information in the database, the signin.php page redirects to post.php page. Any user on the website can only sign in if they are not signed in already and they must be registered with the website. This page also uses sessions to keep the user signed into the website. 

6)	aboutArtist.php: This is the about artist page of the website where the artist information and all the artworks of the specific artist is being displayed. The template of the webpage has been adapted from the two respective pages: about.php and collections_T.php. The header/top part of the webpage has been adapted from about.php page and the boxes below to display the artworks have been adapted from collection_T.php page. All data on the aboutArtist.php page have been populated by querying the artists and artwork tables of the artbyyou database which is connected with the aboutArtist.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

7)	themes.php: This is the theme page of the website where all the artworks belonging to a certain theme are displayed. The template of the webpage has been adapted from collection_T.php page. Each box widget on the webpage displays the artwork, name of the author, and title of the artwork. The author name on the box widgets are clickable and they redirect to the aboutArtist.php page. All data on the themes.php page have been populated by querying the artwork and artists table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the theme.php page. Sessions have been implemented on this page to display the functionalities such as showing a dropdown menu of sign in and sign out when a user is signed in.

8)	post.php: This is the post page of the website where artists can post their artwork on the website. The template of the webpage has been adapted from the signin.php page. The page has three form input fields: Art Title, Theme and File Name. There is also a submit button to upload the artwork to the website. This page takes data from the input form on the page and adds those data to the artwork table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the post.php page. The data insertion in the artwork table of the database has been implemented using prepared statements. This page can only be accessed once a user has created an account or has signed into the website. If a user is not signed in, the post.php page redirects to signin.php page. Sessions have been used to maintain the functionality of the page when a user is signed in. This page also shows an error message when the user does not input anything in the fields and a success message when an artwork is successfully posted.

9)	createAccount.php: This is the create account page of the website where a user/artist can register themselves on the website. The template of the webpage has been adapted from the signin.php page. The page has six form input fields: Name, Type of Artist, Tell us about you, Upload an image of yourself, Create a Username, Create a Password. There is also a submit button to register the user on the website. This page takes data from the input form on the page and adds those data to the signin and artists table of the artbyyou database which is connected with the createAccount.php page. If a user does not input anything in any of the input fields, the page also shows an error message. The data insertion in the signin and artists table of the database has been implemented using prepared statements. Once a user successfully creates an account, the createAccount.php page redirects to post.php page and keeps the user signed into the website. Sessions have been used to maintain the functionality of the page when a user creates an account and signs in.

10)	serverlogin.php: This page contains the basic login credentials to connect to the database.

Note: For convenience, the image files have been stored in such a way in the theme folder that we just have to type “additional_artistfirstname.jpg” (Here artistfirstname is the name of the artist that wants to upload the artwork. For example: if the artist is Carl Palmer, after inputting the Art Title and Theme fields just type “additional_carl.jpg” in the File Name field and the artwork will be uploaded to the themes collection and also in the about artist section). Also, for the createAccount.php page, just type in newArtist1.jpg or newArtist2.jpg, or newArtist3.jpg in the “Upload an image of yourself” input field to upload an image for the new user.



References:

[1]	“Modern business - full website template for bootstrap 5,” Full Website Template for Bootstrap 5 - Start Bootstrap. [Online]. Available: https://startbootstrap.com/template/modern-business. [Accessed: 02-Feb-2023]. 
	
[2]	Images used on this website are retrieved from Microsoft’s 360 stock images.



